# Location-based Routing Algorithms in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks

This repo contains the code for the Location-based Routing Algorithms in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks final year project. The final report can be viewed in the Report folder for more information. A user guide for this set of MATLAB scripts is available in the report.

**Abstract**

This project explores the use of Mobile Ad Hoc networks for crowd control, as a response to events in the local area which have caused disruption to transport links. The aim of the project is to identify the most appropriate routing algorithm to use in this Mobile Ad Hoc network. The movement of people leaving a football stadium after a match is modelled and a network amongst the crowd, between devices with Bluetooth Low Energy connectivity, is simulated. The four routing algorithms simulated have significant differences in their design and include both active and reactive routing protocols, allowing for a thorough performance comparison. Performance is measured through two main metrics: Group Transmission Time (GTT) and power consumption. GTT is defined as the time difference between the first and last relevant nodes in the network receiving the message being propagated. Power consumption is used as a secondary metric to assess the suitability of each algorithm, due to the power limited nature of the mobile devices involved in the network. For dense networks, active routing algorithms are found to have slightly lower GTT in absolute terms, at the cost of significantly higher power consumption, compared to reactive routing algorithms.
